SC-085: Require Validation of DNSSEC (when present) for CAA and DCV Lookups (#579)
cabforum/servercert: docs/BR.md

Completed validations of Applicant authority may be valid for the issuance of multiple Certificates over time. In all cases, the validation must have been initiated within the time period specified in the relevant requirement (such as [Section 4.2.1](#421-performing-identification-and-authentication-functions) of this document) prior to Certificate issuance. For purposes of domain validation, the term Applicant includes the Applicant's Parent Company, Subsidiary Company, or Affiliate.

Effective November 15th, 2025: DNSSEC validation back to the IANA DNSSEC root trust anchor MUST be performed on all DNS queries associated with the validation of domain authorization or control by the Primary Network Perspective. The DNS resolver used for all DNS queries associated with the validation of domain authorization or control by the Primary Network Perspective:

> * MUST be a "security-aware resolver" as defined in [RFC 4035 Section 4](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4035#section-4); and

Reviewer: A few thoughts:

1. This ballot should explicitly disallow CAs from using the "get out of jail free card" where DNSSEC validation is disabled if defined by local policy (RFC 4035, section 4.2)
2. I think the fragmentation guidance in section 4.1 regarding proper handling of fragmentation is outdated. See https://www.dnsflagday.net/2020/. Specifically, the SHOULD in that section is outdated.
3. The requirement to discern the four different states is not strictly required. Specifically, there is no need to distinguish between Bogus and Indeterminate for the purposes of domain validation.
4. Add a reference to RFC 8198, section 7? https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8198.html#section-7

Author: ### regarding local policy
 I agree. Possibly language like the following could be added:

CAs MUST NOT use local policy to disable DNSSEC validation on any DNS query associated with the validation of domain authorization or control.

with a corresponding line in the CAA section.

### regarding fragmentation guidance
That is correct. The SHOULD in that section is outdated and the DNS Flag Day recommendation is the current best practice (e.g., https://unbound.docs.nlnetlabs.nl/en/latest/manpages/unbound.conf.html ). Perhaps just adding a clarifying SHOULD in the bullet list

* SHOULD have the Extension Mechanisms for DNS (EDNS) buffer size set to 1232 bytes.

### regarding distinguishing between Bogus and Indeterminate

I agree that distinguishing between Bogus and Indeterminate is not required. I feel both should be treated as a lookup failure that does not give permission to issue. Maybe the first bullet could be changed to:

* MUST be a "security-aware resolver" as defined in [RFC 4035 Section 4](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4035#section-4) with the exception that the resolver does not need to distinguish between the Bogus and Indeterminate sates; and

### RFC 8198, section 7

Sure. Potentially in the DNS resolver bullet list stating the properties, a property could be added stating:

* SHOULD follow the guidance in RFC 8198 Section 7.

I will note that I don't think this update is strictly needed from a security or compliance standpoint.

> * MUST support NSEC3 and SHA-2 as defined in [RFC 6840 Section 2](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6840#section-2); and

Reviewer: I don't see any MUST-level requirements in https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6840#section-2.1 (NSEC3) or https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6840#section-2.2 (SHA-2) for validators to implement these two features. They are "strongly encouraged", which I interpret to be a "SHOULD" as opposed to being mandatory.

Author: In this situation, I think it is important to consider context. Particularly 1) RFC 6840 is now 13 years old and 2) the RFC is titled "Clarifications and Implementation Notes for DNS Security (DNSSEC)." Given this RFC is intended to be clarification and security notes, I suspect the IETF would have deemed it inappropriate to use MUST to dictate the use of new algorithms. Furthermore, this type of language would also instantaneously made any existing DNSSEC implementation that had not yet implemented those algorithms non-compliant which I do not think was the goal of this RFC. In today's DNSSEC ecosystem I feel a MUST is appropriate for both of these. I will address the case for SHA-2 and NSEC3 separately.

SHA-2: IANA lists the SHA-2 algorithm as mandatory ( https://www.iana.org/assignments/ds-rr-types/ds-rr-types.xhtml ). I feel SHA-2 being mandatory is particularly critical as the behavior of a DNSSEC-validating resolver when it encounters an unknown digest algorithm is to continue processing the lookup without performing validation. The delegations to .com, .net and .org all use the SHA-2 digest so any domain under these TLDs cannot be validated if a resolver does not support the SHA-2 digest. Measuring the top DNSSEC domains on the Tranco list ( https://tranco-list.eu ) shows 960 out of the 1058 DS records found use the SHA-2 algorithm ( https://github.com/birgelee/dnssec-measurements ). Furthermore, there exist no viable alternatives to the SHA-2 digest. The SHA-1 digest originally introduced in the first DNSSEC documents is now broken and all other digests are optional with limited support. Thus, if SHA-2 is not supported there is no option for a secure digest algorithm. Given that unknown digest algorithms cause a fail-open behavior, not supporting SHA-2 is similar to not validating at all. I personally cannot see mandating DNSSEC without requiring support of the SHA-2 digest.

NSEC3: Unlike SHA-2 support, resolvers lacking NSEC3 support will fail closed in the presence of NSEC3 records. If a recursive resolver queries a record that does not exist and cannot understand an NSEC3 record, it will be unable to validate the proof of nonexistence and return an error code for the query. Technically this is an availability not a security concern. However, NSEC3 is quite prominent with 296 / 707 top domains using it ( https://github.com/birgelee/dnssec-measurements ). A CA not supporting NSEC3 will likely encounter significant errors particularly since CAA record behavior treats the absence of the record as permission to issue. This could harm DNSSEC deployment as many properly configured domains will encounter DNSSEC errors which are not the domain's fault but due to the CA's use of an outdated DNSSEC validator.

It is important to remember that RFC 6840 is 13 years old. 13 years ago, it may not have seemed fitting to strictly mandate the use of these new algorithms and it reasonable that the algorithms be recommended for a significant period of time before being mandated.  RFC 6840 does still contain strong language as it "define[s] NSEC3 and SHA-2 (RFC 4509 and RFC 5702) as core parts of the DNSSEC specification." (RFC 6840). Given that 1) NSEC3 and SHA-2 are core parts of the DNSSEC specification and 2) these algorithms have been deployed significantly leading to high prevalence and even dominance (in the case of SHA-2) in the DNSSEC ecosystem, I think mandating their support is called for. Additionally, I would ask the question of what operational advantage is obtained by listing these as SHOULD? Are there any contemporary production DNS resolvers that do not support these algorithms? I would even argue there is an operational advantage to having these as a MUST given a resolver that does not support these methods is likely to be 13+ years out of date and subject to ample other security vulnerabilities.

Author: I was reviewing RFCs and I came across [RFC 4034 Appendix A](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4034#appendix-A) which reads:

A DNSSEC aware resolver or name server MUST implement all MANDATORY
   algorithms.

RFC 4034 is referenced by RFC 4035 as being the authoritative reference for all DNSSEC resource records. Given that the [current IANA registry](https://www.iana.org/assignments/ds-rr-types/ds-rr-types.xhtml) lists SHA-2 as MANDATORY and 4034 requires support for all MANDATORY algorithms, I feel not supporting SHA-2 would be an RFC violation.

Reviewer: To be clear, I don't have any objection to requiring NSEC3 or SHA-2 algorithm support for the reasons you noted. My point is that the current draft language does not establish any MUST-level requirements, because the referenced sections in RFC 6840 all contain SHOULD-level language. SHOULD-level "strong encouragements" do not become MUST-level requirements solely due to the passage of time. In a similar vein, updates to IANA registries (or any other RFC publication action) do not translate to BR normative changes absent BR language to require adherence to the MTI elements in the registry. 

Instead, I think this ballot should instead directly reference the appropriate section(s) of the appropriate RFCs that define NSEC3 and the use of SHA-2. This will make the requirement much easier to understand.

Author: @CBonnell that makes sense. Thanks for clarifying. I will push a change to have the language directly reference the SHA-2 and NSEC3 RFCs.

* MUST properly handle the security concerns enumerated in [RFC 6840 Section 4](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6840#section-4)

> DNSSEC validation back to the ICANN DNSSEC root trust anchor MAY be performed on all DNS queries associated with the validation of domain authorization or control by Remote Network Perspectives used for Multi-Perspective Issuance Corroboration.

Reviewer: I received a comment that IANA maintains the DNSSEC root trust anchor, not ICANN.

Author: IANA is more appropriate here. I will update this. The old text in the BRs referencing the DNSSEC root trust anchor said ICANN, but IANA is actually tasked with managing it.

Completed validations of Applicant authority may be valid for the issuance of multiple Certificates over time. In all cases, the validation must have been initiated within the time period specified in the relevant requirement (such as [Section 4.2.1](#421-performing-identification-and-authentication-functions) of this document) prior to Certificate issuance. For purposes of domain validation, the term Applicant includes the Applicant's Parent Company, Subsidiary Company, or Affiliate.

> Effective November 15th, 2025: DNSSEC validation back to the IANA DNSSEC root trust anchor MUST be performed on all DNS queries associated with the validation of domain authorization or control by the Primary Network Perspective. The DNS resolver used for all DNS queries associated with the validation of domain authorization or control by the Primary Network Perspective MUST:

Reviewer 2: Section 8.7 of the BRs requires the CA to monitor adherence to these requirements by performing self-audits on 3% of certificate issuances. Under the current ballot text, will a CA be required to also verify DNSSEC verification as part of these self-audits? Doing so will likely require saving all DNSSEC lookup records, and re-validating them during the self-audit. Can it be made explicit in the ballot text whether this will be expected or not?

Author: Hi @geegeea 

Thanks for following up. To briefly clarify the comment I made about checking with documentation or maintainers. In the case of [[Hickory](https://github.com/hickory-dns/hickory-dns)] [[Bind](https://bind9.readthedocs.io/en/v9.18.15/general.html)] [[Unbound](https://unbound.docs.nlnetlabs.nl/en/latest/reference/rfc-compliance.html)] [[Power DNS](https://www.powerdns.com/compliance)], [[Knot](https://www.knot-resolver.cz/documentation/latest/rfc-list.html)], all the RFCs listed in this ballot appear on their compliance lists and I feel this is sufficient to show these choices achieve compliance. Many other DNS resolvers state DNSSEC support but don't provide the same level of detail regarding their compliance. This is where I would recommend contact with maintainers. The RFCs required by this ballot are quite standard and I think it is unlikely a well maintained DNS resolver with DNSSEC support would have issue with them.

Regarding first-party-maintained resolvers: I encourage any CA in such a situation to speak up. I will say I think in-house developed resolvers do expose a CA to some risk of misissuance given the frequency of vulnerabilities and Best Current Practice updates regarding the DNS protocol. Some practices that were once commonplace for DNS resolvers are now serious security vulnerabilities (e.g., fixed source ports). If this ballot does encourage a push to externally-maintained DNS resolvers, that may even be beneficial to the ecosystem. Also, to clarify, no text in this ballot precludes the use of an in-house DNS resolver, but I do understand that CAs in this position may need longer to invest the required engineering resources.

I do not think DNS records should be saved for the purpose of the self audit. Many DNS resolvers do not produce a validation attestation and the volume of saving all DNS records is extremely high. In DNSSEC, my understanding is that DNS resolvers have the right to cache DNSSEC signed results without storing the underlying signatures used to validate those results (presuming the signatures verified correctly). Thus in many implementations it is non-trivial to simply ask the resolver to produce an entire validation chain particularly if intermediate results were not stored at the time the lookups were performed.

* perform DNSSEC validation using the algorithm defined in [RFC 4035 Section 5](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4035#section-5); and
* support NSEC3 as defined in [RFC 5155](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5155); and 
* support SHA-2 as defined in [RFC 4509](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4509) and [RFC 5702](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5702); and
* properly handle the security concerns enumerated in [RFC 6840 Section 4](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6840#section-4).

Effective March 15th, 2026: CAs MUST NOT use local policy to disable DNSSEC validation on any DNS query associated with the validation of domain authorization or control.

DNSSEC validation back to the IANA DNSSEC root trust anchor MAY be performed on all DNS queries associated with the validation of domain authorization or control by Remote Network Perspectives used for Multi-Perspective Issuance Corroboration.

> 

Reviewer 2: Apologies I missed adding this in the DCV section in my earlier comment.

```suggestion

DNSSEC validation back to the IANA DNSSEC root trust anchor is considered outside the scope of self-audits performed to fulfill the requirements in [Section 8.7](#87-self-audits).
```

CAs MUST document potential issuances that were prevented by a CAA record in sufficient detail to provide feedback to the CA/Browser Forum on the circumstances, and SHOULD dispatch reports of such issuance requests to the contact(s) stipulated in the CAA iodef record(s), if present. CAs are not expected to support URL schemes in the iodef record other than mailto: or https:.

##### 3.2.2.8.1 DNSSEC Validation of CAA Records

DNSSEC validation back to the ICANN DNSSEC root trust anchor MUST be performed on all DNS queries associated with CAA record lookups performed by the Primary Network Perspective. The DNS resolver used for all DNS queries associated with CAA record lookups performed by the Primary Network Perspective MUST be a "security-aware resolver" as defined in [RFC 4035 Section 4](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4035#section-4) and MUST be compliant with [RFC 6840](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6840).

DNSSEC-validation errors observed by the Primary Network Perspective (e.g., SERVFAIL) MUST NOT be treated as permission to issue.

> DNSSEC validation back to the ICANN DNSSEC root trust anchor SHOULD be performed on all DNS queries associated with CAA record lookups performed by Remote Network Perspectives as part of Multi-Perspective Issuance Corroboration, but it is not required.

Reviewer 3: I think it would be better to change the SHOULD, combined with "not required" in the same sentence, to MAY.

```suggestion
DNSSEC validation back to the ICANN DNSSEC root trust anchor MAY be performed on all DNS queries associated with CAA record lookups performed by Remote Network Perspectives as part of Multi-Perspective Issuance Corroboration.
```

Reviewer 4: Is it better to keep the SHOULD (and its RFC 2119 meaning) as is, and instead remove the trailing “[...], but it is not required.” at the end of the sentence? It seems that the proposed change of the existing SHOULD to a MAY would make this practice not recommended and instead optional.

Reviewer 3: It should be optional. It doesn't provide any meaningful security improvement if the DNS zone is already signed. This was confirmed in past discussions and repeated by Henry in today's validation subcommittee meeting.

Author: After thinking over this some more I am slightly in favor of "MAY". I know some auditors take "SHOULD" very seriously and having this as a SHOULD would make not validating DNSSEC at remote perspectives less than optimal.

The advantage of "MAY" in this sentence is that MPIC does best when perspectives are placed in the most diverse locations possible including spread across different cloud providers (this is not required or typically something I have seen in existing MPIC deployments, but it can offer further improved security). If a CA were considering deploying in a new cloud provider that did not support DNSSEC, I argue it would be better for the CA to deploy there and expand to a different cloud provider than to stay with a more conservative approach of only staying in cloud providers that support DNSSEC.

I think with MPIC requirements in general, language has been chosen to encourage ease of deployment in diverse regions over strict security mandates for those regions (which is sometimes at odds of diversity). This, I feel here going against the "more is better" attitude of security to favor MPIC deployment diversity is preferable.

That said, for those who can deploy DNSSEC validation in your MPIC infrastructure, I do encourage it. Open MPIC even provides a sample unbound container (which we use in our docker-based deployment examples) to assist with DNSSEC validation in MPIC deployments ( https://github.com/open-mpic/open-mpic-containers/tree/main/unbound ). On a side note: Open MPIC does test against the CAA test suite and a non-DNSSEC MPIC deployment will fail *.caatestsuite-dnssec.com tests.

* the failure is outside the CA's infrastructure; and
* the lookup has been retried at least once; and

> * the CA has confirmed that the domain is "Insecure" as defined in [RFC 4035 Section 4.3](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4035#section-4.3).

Author: Thanks for bringing this up. I did review the thread and I think the main issue was unbound-host marking several domains as "insecure" where in fact it had lookup errors so the insecure status of the domain could not be determined.

It appears this issue has been fixed an updated version of unbound-host. Rerunning the queries in question I now get a status of "2(SERVFAIL). (error)" which no longer states the domain is insecure, thus complying with the RFC. This ballot language also has an explicit reference to the "SERVFAIL" error (see line 1132 of the new changes) as not being permission to issue which I think is helpful.

Even in light of this, I still think the use of RFC language is superior to prior language in the BRs.

1. The RFC 4035 definition of "Insecure" properly defines the state of a domain which is appropriate for this CAA check failure language. Given there is an existing and appropriate definition in a well established DNSSEC standard doc, I think the correct thing is to use it.
2. I think these problems and bugs discussed exist whether the old or new language is employed. The linked MDSP thread is in fact debating the applicability of signing certificates in these states under the old baseline requirement language (which is in my opinion a less accurate and more ambiguous description of the RFC 4035 insecure state). The root of the problem is that if a DNS resolver encounters certain types of lookup errors, it can be very difficult to determine the DNSSEC state of a domain. I think this challenge is helped by specifically tying the requirement to the RFC 4035 insecure state which is understood by DNS software. Without this I personally don't see a straightforward way for a CA to deduce the presence of absence of a DNSSEC chain given the CA's DNS resolver is throwing an error on the domain in question.
3. As I stated previously, the mentioned bug has since been fixed.

A longer-term initiative along this front could be to conduct a survey of CAs and find out how many still issue on CAA lookup failures. The cleanest approach down the road would probably be to remove this language (i.e., require all CAA lookups to be successful) because this clause requires DNS resolvers that return errors to additionally indicate if the domain in question was DNSSEC signed or not. If the DNS resolver had an error, then something went wrong, and it is likely the DNS resolver will not be able to make an accurate attestation of the domain's DNSSEC status.

In the interest of minimal changes in each ballot, I felt proposing removal of this language would simply complicate things and is not fully related to DNSSEC. However, given that we now have an RFC 4035 reference, I feel using it here is appropriate and offers more clarity.

Below are the outputs of my unbound-host runs using the same flags as the original MDSP post:
```
henry@MacBook-Pro-259 sbin % ./unbound-host -v -t CAA -D -f /usr/local/etc/unbound/root.key blackhole.caatestsuite-dnssec.com.
Host blackhole.caatestsuite-dnssec.com. not found: 2(SERVFAIL). (error)

henry@MacBook-Pro-259 sbin % ./unbound-host -v -t CAA -D -f /usr/local/etc/unbound/root.key servfail.caatestsuite-dnssec.com. 
Host servfail.caatestsuite-dnssec.com. not found: 2(SERVFAIL). (error)

henry@MacBook-Pro-259 sbin % ./unbound-host -v -t CAA -D -f /usr/local/etc/unbound/root.key refused.caatestsuite-dnssec.com. 
Host refused.caatestsuite-dnssec.com. not found: 2(SERVFAIL). (error)

henry@MacBook-Pro-259 sbin % ./unbound-host -v -t CAA -D -f /usr/local/etc/unbound/root.key expired.caatestsuite-dnssec.com. 
expired.caatestsuite-dnssec.com. has no CAA record (BOGUS (security failure))
validation failure <expired.caatestsuite-dnssec.com. CAA IN>: signature expired from 45.79.179.40 and 45.79.179.40 for key expired.caatestsuite-dnssec.com. while building chain of trust

henry@MacBook-Pro-259 sbin % ./unbound-host -v -t CAA -D -f /usr/local/etc/unbound/root.key missing.caatestsuite-dnssec.com. 
missing.caatestsuite-dnssec.com. has no CAA record (BOGUS (security failure))
validation failure <missing.caatestsuite-dnssec.com. CAA IN>: no signatures from 45.79.179.40 for key missing.caatestsuite-dnssec.com. while building chain of trust

```

> * the CA has confirmed that the domain is "Insecure" as defined in [RFC 4035 Section 4.3](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4035#section-4.3).

Reviewer: Thanks for checking this. What version of unbound-host are you using?

> * the CA has confirmed that the domain is "Insecure" as defined in [RFC 4035 Section 4.3](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4035#section-4.3).

Author: Unbound and unbound-host are Version 1.22.0

Effective March 15th, 2026: DNSSEC validation back to the IANA DNSSEC root trust anchor MUST be performed on all DNS queries associated with CAA record lookups performed by the Primary Network Perspective. The DNS resolver used for all DNS queries associated with CAA record lookups performed by the Primary Network Perspective MUST:

* perform DNSSEC validation using the algorithm defined in [RFC 4035 Section 5](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4035#section-5); and
* support NSEC3 as defined in [RFC 5155](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5155); and 
* support SHA-2 as defined in [RFC 4509](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc4509) and [RFC 5702](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5702); and
* properly handle the security concerns enumerated in [RFC 6840 Section 4](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6840#section-4).

Effective March 15th, 2026: CAs MUST NOT use local policy to disable DNSSEC validation on any DNS query associated CAA record lookups.

Effective March 15th, 2026: DNSSEC-validation errors observed by the Primary Network Perspective (e.g., SERVFAIL) MUST NOT be treated as permission to issue.

> DNSSEC validation back to the IANA DNSSEC root trust anchor MAY be performed on all DNS queries associated with CAA record lookups performed by Remote Network Perspectives as part of Multi-Perspective Issuance Corroboration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DNSSEC validation back to the IANA DNSSEC root trust anchor MAY be performed on all DNS queries associated with CAA record lookups performed by Remote Network Perspectives as part of Multi-Perspective Issuance Corroboration.

DNSSEC validation back to the IANA DNSSEC root trust anchor is considered outside the scope of self-audits performed to fulfill the requirements in [Section 8.7](#87-self-audits).
```
